hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I chat with Chad
baraford a core developer at Thor chain
is a decentralized settlement layer that
facilitates layer 1 to layer 1 token
swaps between 8 Chains including Bitcoin
ethereum Finance smart chain Avalanche
the cosmos Hub Dogecoin Litecoin and
Bitcoin cash Thor chain is secured by
its native token roon which
deterministically accrues value as more
assets are deposited into the network in
this conversation Chad and I talk about
the importance of a decentralized
multi-chain swapping protocol the risks
associated with blockchain to blockchain
Bridges Thor chains synthetic assets
versus wrapped assets on other networks
the protocol's economic security model
the suite of tools and dapps and the
Thor chain ecosystem how Thor chain
enables borrowing and lending and much
more just a reminder nothing said on
this podcast is is a solicitation to buy
or sell any tokens that nothing should
be taken as Financial advice and that
the host or guests May hold tokens
discussed in any given episode with that
said I really enjoyed chatting with Chad
and I hope you enjoy the conversation
too
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're joined by
Chad bariford the lead the tech lead a
core Dev at Thor chain a man of many
titles and has his hands in a lot of
pots when it comes to the Thor chain
project how are you doing Chad good good
thanks for having me on yeah really
excited to have you we were kind of just
chatting a moment ago and I've been very
psyched on the Thor chain project dating
back to way early last year during the
BEP swap days
gotta love those bed spots those are
great man uh that's it's almost funny to
think about but yeah yeah those days
were awesome yeah it was really cool to
just kind of like grok Thor chain back
then it's weird because when you're when
you're in a project and you just kind of
like buy into it at the onset it's for
me at least like it's easy to kind of
stop keeping my finger on the pulse and
so I just like believed in what you guys
were doing and I contributed to the LPS
I love the L1 to L1 swaps so researching
what you guys have been up to and like a
lot of the crazy cool things that Thor
chain has done recently was like Wow
getting me recycled on the project but
before we go into all the cool things
that is happening in the Thor chain
ecosystem and umbrella we kind of both
have a similar story in that we were
doing something completely different
before we got into the crypto space so
what were you doing before you got bit
by the crypto bug and kind of when was
it that you got bit Yeah I had a job I
was a software engineer at a company
called rstudio and our studio is like
one of the Premier Companies that builds
tools for an open source program
language called R which is for like data
analysis and so I contributed to or one
of the one of the main devs of the
company and and I helped build uh some
of their Flagship products I spent like
six years doing that writing mostly and
go and that's when I started to travel
and that's when I started to like meet
other people and I met some crypto
people and that's when I started to kind
of get like you know pilled in a sense I
felt so hard so fast in love with crypto
that I just had to to like just quit
everything and just be singularly
focused everything I got it's going to
go into this go into the space and when
was that was that like 2017 2019 was
Thor chain your first project yeah I uh
that was in
2017 I think in October 2017 I think
that's when I first probably bought my
first Bitcoin and then I quit I think it
was in December I think like
mid-December is when I actually quit my
job like right when the you know
everything crashed through at the end of
December and back in 2017. so I quit
then it only took me like two three
months to like kind of convince myself
that this is what I have to do with my
life and you know move away from
everything that's like secure right and
just move to something that's completely
unknown abyss of crypto and like I
didn't even know what I was gonna do yet
like I didn't I had some ideas I had a
startup that I worked on called
cryptocades it was like an online gaming
site where you can win Bitcoin but like
I wasn't quite sure what I was going to
do yet like I was contributing to Layton
Network a little bit like I had a couple
PR's I opened up for the lightning
Network and I started to kind of poke
around different areas and and kind of
just educate and learn as much as I can
about the space for a long period of
time just ingesting as much information
as I could and it wasn't until 2019
which was but like a year later a year
and a year and a half later did I meet
were the co-founders of the project and
him and I started talking about this
idea this concept and we started working
on it together and and it was pretty
Monumental time for sure yeah I uh I
bought my first Bitcoin in summer of
2017 and then in October 2018 at like
the very bottom of the bear I quit my
government job I was an urban planner
and like super secure super cushy super
safe and went full time to cover the Neo
blockchain and that's what I've been
doing basically since 2018 so you had a
little bit more conviction and jumped
ship a little bit quicker than I did but
I remember back in the day especially
2017 like it was Atomic swaps yep that
was what the future was going to be and
it was just kind of what everyone was
talking about and it wasn't until Thor
chain came along where you could do L1
to L1 native swaps where this kind of
like narrative
re-emerged but something that's really
surprised me is that the crypto industry
today isn't like losing their minds like
people were in 2017 with the future of
atomic swaps so maybe philosophically
speaking can you just share why Thor
chain is such an important project in
the blockchain and crypto space today so
up until Thor chain the ability to move
your value from chain to chain was
dominated by centralized exchanges and
you could talk about local Bitcoins you
could talk about Atomic swaps you could
talk about these things but none of
those things are really practical to use
you really couldn't do those in any kind
of reasonable volume right like they
were toted as something that would solve
a major problem but in reality just
never manifested that way like just
there wasn't the liquidity there wasn't
the same demand for it because it was
just so hard to find a counterparty to
any individual trade you were trying to
make not to mention that even that
counterparty can like cancel their their
thing like last minute that they want
they're like up to a day or a week
depending on how their contract is
written and that becomes like you know
an immovable object in some sense and I
subscribe to what Satoshi started right
subscribe to the idea of
decentralization that's such a
critically important concept and when
centralization is the only place where
you can accomplish something especially
within the crypto sphere like I take
personal offense to that that should
offend all of us as a community as a
cryptocurrency community that like why
am I relying on binance to be able to
buy ethereum ether tokens or whatever
like that is fundamentally broken right
and so with the design and with with the
innovation of Cosmos the innovation of
threshold signatures and the uh
slip-based feed model that we came up
with and other things that came through
we created the different components and
parts that were required to actually do
larger trades at volume and we've done
like billions I think like 10 plus
billion dollars of trade volume or
something I came from the exact number
time I had but like we actually made it
feasible and practical to do a fully
decentralized system that has no points
of singularity in them there's no like
team that has all the the keys or
anything like this or even like you know
it doesn't really quite exist and we
were the first ones to really do it and
it took us years of effort and work like
this is one of the most technically
complex technically ambitious projects
and and defy if not in larger crypto as
well
and it took an extended period of time
of lots of hard work to get it there
like I think I spent probably like 9 A.M
to midnight every day seven days a week
for about a year and a half to be able
to produce this code base that does this
thing for for the betterment of the
entire industry not just of the fortune
industry but like literally for the
betterment of the entire industry of
crypto that's why I saw the need for it
because we need to be able to get rid of
some class entities if you believe in
Bitcoin which most of us do then you
need a substantialized way to get in and
out of it if you have to go through such
a less price sometimes you want to trade
Bitcoin well that kind of defeats the
point to some regard if you can't get in
out of it in the centralized way then
like you know it's just not quite
achieving the vision of what it should
be and we all want Bitcoin to achieve
its vision of what it should be like me
included and this is just in some ways
my attempt to help Bitcoin help ethereum
help avacs like everybody to create a
more Unified some away from the siled
systems of like different ecosystems and
different chains to create more of a
single system that everybody can just
unilaterally move in any direction they
want whenever they want without any
friction whatsoever like that's part of
the vision yeah and we unfortunately uh
have to get reminded of this every few
years because as I think as a at like an
asset class and a group of people who
are really psyched on the kind of
parabolic movements that
cryptocurrencies can make we allow like
our greed to Blind us from time to time
and then we have to have uh a
sambankment fraud yes or a collapse of
FTX to remind us that we do need to
Value these decentralized networks which
is why we got involved in them in the
first place right it's funny and I just
tweeted this other day the other day
like of how fast people are just to
forget about the core principles of what
it is that we stand for as a as an
industry like we want like other people
to custodialize right we want we chased
crazy hundred thousand percent apy yield
which is obviously you know nonsense
right like there are so many things we
do in this industry that we quickly
forget about oh we don't care what the
centralization like if it's cheaper gas
fees I'll use it just because you know
whatever
and you're like you completely forget
about like the core principles of what
we're trying to achieve and that's
really sad but like we have to be
reminded of it like because every cycle
we have new people come into the space
who haven't really gotten their feet wet
yet and they had they weren't around for
the mountain gox days and they weren't
around for the FTX days and they weren't
around for the block fies and the
Celsius and the even the collapse of
like Terrors and the collapse of ohm and
the collapse of like other products that
this didn't work out for one reason or
another they don't come with that
knowledge they have to learn it the hard
way as we all did previously right in
the previous uh Cycles it's an
unfortunate part of reality but that's
true like even Ponzi schemes have been
around for hundreds of hundreds of years
right like thousands of years maybe
there's nothing new people just have to
be continuously reminded about stay away
from ponzis they don't work so well for
you maybe if you're early enough it
works well for you but generally
speaking from nine nine percent of
people you get wiped up this is not an
endorsement for Ponzi schemes or to get
in them early no it's no absolutely not
they're not very helpful they don't
achieve the goal of what we're trying to
trying to build within the D5 space for
sure yeah and and after getting burnt by
you know having that fomo last year of
missing out on ohm and Magic internet
money and seeing all these like super
high aprs it's really refreshing to kind
of go to like Thor Swap and see like
something realistic like six percent
interest on your eth or four percent
interest on your Bitcoin but before we
get into like the vast array of tools
under the door chain umbrella I just
want to hear from you your expert
opinion how is the L1 to L1 swapping
process on Thor chain different than
Atomic swaps uh good question so an
atomic swap you find you as a seller and
somebody else is the buyer you're like
trading Bitcoin or in ether across the
wire in a sense and then you open up a
contract with an agreement amount of
Bitcoin and ether and then after so much
period of time if everything goes
smoothly there's just like the
transactions happen in both directions
and you both get your both get your
assets without the needing of a third
party to mediate that kind of trade but
you have to agree upon like the assets
you agree upon the quantity degree upon
what the price is going to be and then
if that all goes smoothly you can still
people like cancel a day later if the
price moves against somebody and the
price of Bitcoin has shifted maybe they
don't want to make this trade anymore
because now it's a bum deal for them so
they kind of they could cancel it if
they want to in Fortune's case you're
instead of trading uh person to person
you're trading a person to pool and so
there's a pool of liquidity that you're
that you're trading with that you're
interacting with that always has a price
available to you right there's no trying
to convince each other what the price is
between asset a or asset B that's just
the pool as assets there's always a
counterparty to every single trade at
any given moment no matter what it is
people can just throw in money and
they'll get some money out and they'll
be the appropriate free market amount of
money and so because of that like it's
they always had an encounter part it
means that there's somebody else always
willing to make the trade for you so you
don't have to wait for somebody else
like some some other order on an order
book or something like this to to
eventually come down the stream and like
okay I'll finally do the deal with you
or they just never come because this is
not that much liquidity right and so
here because of the this pool here you
can just interact and trade
instantaneously without needing to wait
cool thanks and I just want to preface
with some of the questions I might ask
during our conversation might just be
very like simple or high level but I
want people who have never heard of Thor
chain to be able to walk away and have a
very good understanding of what this
project is and what it represents so one
of the the core devs and the Neo
ecosystem took a peek at the Thor chain
project and they were having a hard time
grocking how Thor chain operates
differently than like a bridging service
if you're bridging something you're
wrapping a token in one chain and then
you're having a representation of it on
another chain but with Thor chain the
uniqueness is is that the roon token is
used to be backed in liquidity pools so
when you're trading between tokens
you're trading Bitcoin to roon and then
Rune to ethereum so for somebody who
just doesn't understand the difference
between bridging services and they kind
of look at Thor chain and they they
equate it to bridging how would you talk
to them and tell them what the
differences are between the two yeah so
for me when I think about a bridge it's
just my own definition so people can
throw in the trash if they want to but
when I think about a bridge I think
about the idea of like taking an asset
like Bitcoin and then creating a
one-to-one representative of that or
what's called a rap asset on ethereum or
avax or like enter chain here doesn't
really matter and then once it's that
Bitcoins on the ethereum blockchain then
you can use it to do all sorts of
miscellaneous things within the ethereum
ecosystem right for trades or swaps or
loans or whatever it is you're trying to
accomplish and whenever you have that
system there's always a requirement of
trust even in the systems where they
claim that there's no trust involved but
like even like you know avacs for
example they have wardens who manage
that Bitcoin quote unquote wardens which
there are six of them and they're
specially picked select hand selected by
you know the avex CEO himself I think or
something like this right Ren BDC like
they run all the nodes themselves wbdc
it's just publicly centralized rep
tokens like all of these rap tokens are
always trusted in one form or another
some are more trusted than others but
they still require trust to function
right altruism to actually function
in Fortune's case we don't like wrap
tokens and so we just trade value for
Value so when you make a trade from
Bitcoin to Ether like you give up player
one Bitcoin and you get layer one ether
on the other side and if something
happens later on say the the bridge was
broken or something like this you don't
give a sh because you got your ether
you're no longer exposed to it but if
you're using a bridge where there's a
wbdc on ethereum for example and then
WDC gets exploited and all the Bitcoin
is lost or like you know Heaven forbids
up until this nature happens then you're
screwed because the thing that's
actually backing your wbdc is now zero
right so you have this prolonged
exposure to these Bridges which is
really problematic because you don't
want to take on that extra risk like you
have to take on the Bitcoin risk of the
Bitcoin protocol they think on the
bridge risk of the the rapid asset they
need to get on the protocol risk of
whatever smart contract you're using to
like you know do a loan or whatever
you're trying to accomplish you're
compounding your risk together and in
the bridge case it's especially bad
because most most bridges are exposed to
both like human risk CFI risk because
it's like a bunch of single individuals
like we've seen I think with the Ronin
Bridge who got like hacked because like
one of the devs got like download like a
malicious PDF and like all the keys were
like you know released or something like
like that's you know C5 risk right but
then we also saw Wormhole got attacked
through you know a D5 uh pattern right
so like they're exposed to both CFI and
d-virus added together compounded
together to be like even more risky
which is why we see so many bridges
hacked all the time because there's so
much risk associated with those guys
right so you're you're compounding the
risk of a bridge plus the layer one plus
the other protocol plus the other chain
and you're just like adding all this
risk together which like is obviously
very risky right but in Fortune's case
like you're just taking your Bitcoin
you're swapping it for ether and then
you're using that ether to accomplish
the goals you're trying to accomplish
they only significantly reducing the
amount of risk you're actually taking on
it's a much cleaner way of thinking
about it for sure so if if like a Dev is
coming to the Thor chain docks and they
see synthetic assets how would you
describe the differences between a Thor
chain synthetic asset and maybe
something that's wrapped so a wrapped
asset is a one-to-one between the
backing of it so red so WBC is a wrapped
asset it's backed by Bitcoin itself
right in a one-to-one in a synthetic
asset the backing is comprised of one or
more assets like synthetics the the
protocol and ethereum for example is an
example of that and for us like when we
talk about synthetic Bitcoin or
synthetic ethereum that's on our chain
the liquidity or the value of that thing
is backed by the pool which the pool is
comprised of both Bitcoin and roon or
ether Plus roon or avax plus Rune or
whatever it is and the reason why that's
better than a wrapped asset is because
because it's back in part because of
roon which is the same answer people are
using to bond up to run validator nodes
right there's a tight coupling between
the people who are validating and the
the asset itself versus if you were to
bond up with a say there's a new bridge
chain let's call it like dark chain and
dark chain is a dark token and you bind
up with dark token and people send in
Bitcoin and they mint dark Bitcoin or
something like this though if the dark
token goes down in value because if
something happens or whatever happens it
can drop below the value of the Bitcoin
that you're supposed to be securing and
that becomes highly problematic if you
give me ten dollars and I give you I
want to give you a thousand dollars to
secure well that's not really good for
me because now you can walk away with my
thousand dollars yeah I'll keep your ten
dollars you gave me but like obviously
you're gonna make out like a bandit in
this context so the asset that you're
using to secure the network the start
token has to be directly correlational
to the Bitcoin that you're you're trying
to secure if it's not a direct
correlation that that the dark Focus
price comes down suddenly that the
Bitcoin quantity in the network will
come down suddenly with it to make sure
that the value of the dark token is
always worth more than the the non-dark
tokens the Bitcoin The Ether the various
tokens that it's securing that's what we
call Economic Security and that's why
like we're the only project in the space
that actually does this by the way I
don't know why that is but it's rather
silly like we are the only ones to think
about security not just from a
cryptographic perspective or a
technological perspective but also from
an economic perspective which is I wish
more people would do that yeah and so I
love that the protocol implements like
Game Theory directly into its success so
for folks who aren't aware can you share
what a validator is what a bond is and
how bonding is actually putting a little
bit of skin in the game and if you
decide to basically run away abscond
with the assets how you'll you'll be
harming yourself more because you had to
provide a bond correct so each validator
is about approximately close to 100 of
them give or take 10 or so and each
validator runs a full node of Bitcoin
and ethereum a full mode of avax and a
full note of Doge and B and B Litecoin
whatever and they make observations
about what happened on bitcoin what had
happened on ethereum and it each
individual value tells the chain like oh
I saw this I observed this transaction
took place from this address to our
address with this memo with this amount
below blah blah blah all this
information and then once the two-thirds
majority of those values get an
agreeance on that particular transaction
then it becomes real within the third
chain Network it becomes part of our
state in a sense and now we think we
have we got more Bitcoin could you send
us some Bitcoin and we're gonna do a
trade to Ether or some other asset but
bonding is a is the practice of like
making sure that they have something at
risk right we can't just have people
altruistically run validators that if
they get something wrong there's no slap
on the wrist there's no punishment for
being malicious or doing something you
know that's counterproductive to the
network we need to create the incentives
the proper incentives to make sure
everybody does the correct thing and so
people Bond up with a minimum 300 000
room most times actually closer to 900
thousand which is a lot of money and
that's held over their head like a
guillotine like the network has this
money that's yours and if you do
something we don't like as a protocol
then we have the skill of team that's
over your neck to be able to slash and
take away your room so we're going to
give an example of like if you were to
run enough validators which would need
to run like at least 14 of them which is
hard to do but just say you did it
anyway and you had all that money that
you put up let's just call it like 20
million dollars or something like this
or whatever the number would be you
wouldn't have access to 30 million
dollars with a Bitcoin you'd have access
to maybe 10 million dollars of Bitcoin
in ethereum and other assets maybe 12 or
13 whatever it might be depends upon the
state of the network but you always have
access to far less than the money that
you put up to get into that position so
if you were to steal the you know the 10
million dollars worth of bitcoin in
ethereum various assets you would be
slashed 15 million dollars of room from
your bond right so you just lost a
boatload of money you basically just
spent 15 million dollars to buy 10
million dollars with the Bitcoin which
is congratulations you're an idiot so
that's terrible idea right that's part
of the what we call the economic
security that that incentive is always
there even in the scenario where runes
prices like plummets for some reason
Arbitrage Watts will buy up roon and
they'll sell it through the market and
then remove Bitcoin from the pool
ensuring that the value of that Bitcoin
always is less than the value of the the
roon assets and that's such a key and
important concept of what we like to
think about when we talk about Economic
Security so it's baked into when you're
buying the Rune you're buying the
opportunity to become a validator node
it's baked into the protocol that you
have to pay a certain percentage more in
roon than in the native asset you're
talking about so do I have to put in
like uh like a 66 percent increase of
roon and Bitcoin when I become a Bitcoin
validator on the Thor chain Network as a
validity the only thing you have to
provide is room you don't have to
provide any Bitcoin the rest of the
community does that LPS uh do that
liquidity providers do that you just
have to provide the Rune side of things
and which is a minimum of 300 000 and
there's like what we call like a a bond
War where people have to like the higher
bonds are the ones that get churned in
the network so like you want to be like
one of the wealthier people in a sense
just so you can provide more value more
security to the network itself and is
there a limit on the amounts of
validators because you said it's around
100 right now is that going to increase
in the future will that be something
that like the core team decides or is
that going to be something that the
market decides uh well the core team
doesn't really decide much at all I mean
in the end it's the validators who
choose what gets adopted and what
doesn't get adopted right now I think
there's a hard-coded limit of an
artificially hardcore limited like 120
validators it can go up to you know
theoretically it could go to 200 maybe
even 250 but depending upon the
limitations of what Cosmos SDK allows
but I would also say that like how many
people in the world actually have 300
000 room right or like half a million
dollars with a rune or so like not that
many right so we're probably not going
to get to a point where there's going to
be 10 000 validators of this network
just because probably 10 000 people who
are millionaires for whatever of the
roon asset and be able to to run you
know validators that may shift in the
future like I don't know like maybe that
will actually happen but like for right
now I think we'll probably be stuck
around 100 or so give or take plus or
minus 10 or so and and we'll be
fluctuating back and forth between them
I'm sure yeah and is there a total token
Supply cap on the Rune token yes it's
500 million is just the supply cap I
feel like a lot of Cosmos assets are
like you know infinite mint scenarios
where they can submit as much as they
want to pay out delegated proof of stake
and like can I say which doesn't make
sense to me for us though we kind of
like the idea of like a limited Supply
so roon is 500 million uh hard capped
yeah and and the price of roon changes
based off of essentially like the
activity on the network the assets that
it's paired against so that's really
interesting from like a price point
perspective that roon could like really
have it could go to like 200 300 a token
simply by how people use the network and
the other assets that it's paired
against yeah so if you think about
another amm like uniswap for example
which everybody's familiar with they
have a uni token right which is a
governance token but it has no
relationship whatsoever to the success
or failure of the network itself like it
could see a trillion dollars a trade
volume in a day but that wouldn't
necessarily affect the value of the uni
token in Thor Chain's case the room
tokens baked into its its core and so
anytime you're interfacing with thoughts
and even like the simple Act of uh
selling your Bitcoin to buy ether or
vice versa that drives value rule into
the room token inherently so when you
provide Bitcoin to where our Savers
product we've just launched like three
weeks ago you're actually creating by
pressure when you do that onto the roon
token whether you're aware of it or not
almost everything you do here within
within the Thor chains Network a cruise
value into the room token and so as the
network becomes more successful has more
trades more volume more depths more
whatever like all these things
inherently that creates buy pressure
onto the roonasser and the growth of the
root tokens price and its market cap so
roon is kind of like uh the canary in
the coal mine for the price of other
assets so does door chain use an oracle
Network to determine the price of the L1
assets that it's paired against and I'm
kind of like lobbing you a softball so
also just ask beyond the Oracle question
like how does arbitrage keep the price
of the assets uh realistic with the rest
of the market yeah good question so this
network was designed with the mentality
the subscription of no dependencies
because whenever you have dependencies
you're just you're introducing risk
right like we saw that with Tara when it
started to collapse and then chain link
decided to stop reporting the price of I
think it was Luna once I hit like 10
cents something like this and then a
bunch of D5 products just got like
cleared out because Chain Link stopped
doing the thing that I promise it was
going to do so for me I hate the idea of
dependencies I want 14 to become a
completely self-reliant so that it
doesn't rely on the success or failure
of any other project or system or
protocol or service in the entire space
they can fail they can succeed store
chain is completely self-reliant so
there's no external Oracles of any kind
happening at any point to suggest us
instead as you alluded to we rely on
Arbitrage right and so in the pool you
might have you can have two assets which
one's going to be roon and one's going
to be some other athlete could be
Bitcoin or if ether or Doge or something
like this and the network always treats
the Rune side and the pool side as equal
value from the Network's perspective
those two stacks of coins are dollar the
same but in reality the maybe the market
prices disagrees with this concept maybe
the bitcoin's worth a little bit more
than what the pool perceives is the
price right now that means that that the
network will basically allow you to send
in roon and take out Bitcoin for a
slightly higher value right which is
what we call an Arbitrage opportunity
then you can sell that Bitcoin on you
know binance some other place for a
profit so we rely on just the the free
market incentives for people to correct
the pool price relative to the market
price because they're financially
incentivized to do so it's literally
free money on the table and he wants to
take it you can go ahead and take it
typically it's box doing all this
trading because it's like hyper fast and
all these things but like that's what
keeps the prices correct in the system
it's just free market incentives and
again it's another nod Tau cool protocol
is that it acknowledged economic
activity and Game Theory and the way
that people participate in markets and
just kind of made that as an assumption
as part of the protocol yep so one of
the like the AHA moments for me was I
can trade Bitcoin to ethereum L1 to L1
without having to go through a
centralized entity and that in and of
itself is really cool what about token
on other networks like what if I wanted
to trade secret on the cosmos SDK with
the uniswap token is it possible to
trade um like ERC 20 tokens to I don't
know what the standard is for Cosmos but
can I go through Thor chain as well to
trade tokens from tokens on on other
networks yeah that's called a cw20 by
the way so I think initially when we
launched this network we had this
mentality that we're just going to have
all the tokens on Fortune and then just
becomes like the biggest Exchange in the
world because it just has everything and
you know you can trade whatever you want
whenever you want and then after like
just see how the market reacted and see
how the use cases were we actually found
that it wasn't really necessarily
practical for our cases because we can't
have an unlimited amount of tool depths
like like you just walk and have you
know 13 trillion dollars worth of value
in their in their things and that's fine
that's from security perspective
obviously they don't have anything close
to that but like they could right and so
we actually shifted our Viewpoint to
talk about less about a long tail assets
like erc20s or cw20s and more about just
focusing the gas assets but then also
integrating dexes this is what we call
Dex aggregation so this is the idea that
I can start on ethereum and I want to
say I want to get to like secret Network
for example right I can start with you
know usdc on on ethereum swap it by you
know uniswap or one inch something like
this to Ether The Ether gets sent to
Thor chain door chain swaps it to Adam
the atom gets sent to osmosis osmosis
swaps it to secret and the secret goes
to your wallet whatever the hell your
Kepler wall or whatever wall you're
using to see that tokens now from your
perspective all you actually did was
just send a single transaction for usdc
and then behind the scenes all this
complexity things happen about you know
figuring out how to get the gas to work
right bridging across multiple chains
blah blah blah doing all this work and
it's just abstracted away from you it's
so it's so beautiful it's so simple it's
so like so clean and so the iPod part of
the idea is that like we want to be the
conduit to connect every decks to every
other deck so the entire ecosystem not
just like one chain or two chains but
like all of the chains more or less
right and then all of a sudden every
decks in the world has access to every
asset and the liquidity of every other
decks of the entire cryptocurrency space
let that just kind of like seep into
your just the idea that seep into your
brain just for one second because that's
a ridiculous notion I mean that's that
would make essential exchanges you know
shake in their pants because now they
can't compete with D5 because D5 just
has the app that they want when they
want it you don't have to spend six
months trying to like negotiate with
census exchanges to pay them three
hundred thousand dollars and then give
them a bunch of tokens for liquidity
blah blah it's like a huge Pain by
simplest exchanges when we go through
that procedure and process but now we
can get to a place where like you can
single trade single transaction access
to any asset you want whenever you want
without permission without signing up
and you can do within minutes that's
insane like that's where we're heading
as an industry which I'm super excited
about and is this something that like
Thor swap is going to offer so Thor swap
is the user interface for using the back
end technology that is door chain well I
one day be able to go to Thor Swap and
say I want to trade secret for uni and
then this will all happen automatically
yes in fact Georgetown already supports
a lot of this today they actually
created an API for devs to use where you
can actually say I have S A on chain B
and I want to get to you know asset X on
chain y or something like this and it'll
just create like five or six different
Pathways of getting there and then
select give you like here's the one we
recommend because this is like the
cheapest you know way of getting there
and so like it already supports it today
like you can already do large trades on
Thor chain to one inch in other places
uh like Pangolin and Trader Joe and avax
is already supported and like more
chains are like are coming Downstream
that's already be being done today it's
already it's already launched and
shipped and working functioning today we
have more to expand out into like the
secret Network in osmosis for example
what's something we want to do in the
long term but like that's just already
happened it's already Midway how do you
guys decide what chain to support next
because there's a lot of really cool
protocols out there like the folks here
in Colorado know me as like a Neo show
because I've just been covering the
project for four and a half years but
like how do you choose whether to
integrate Neo or Mina or some sort of
really cool chain that's coming down
like do you need a community vote is it
a grant that needs to be distributed
what's that process like yeah so the
first part of it is just all the dev
work that requires to do so if you go to
Dev dot I think it's dev.fortune.org I
want to say or.com I can't remember
which one it is but like but you can see
the the docs of how you can do that so
it's building the actual chain client
with our bifrost it's building smoke
tests to make sure everything works and
find all that kind of stuff it's
contributing to exchange njs that all
the uis can utilize your new chamber
that thing is and there's like marketing
efforts too to make sure that the new
chain and protein can operate together
to kind of like broadcast and
communicate about this new thing that's
happening uh that's part of it right
there but this also is like the chain is
operated owned by the validators
themselves and so any new chain that
gets added it goes through a community
vote and so you have to convince the
community to think that you know Mina or
Neo or whatever the insert chain here is
worthwhile and some of the things we
look at as a community is like well what
is the economic value of this particular
what is the the total value of that
economic the ecosystem of this
particular chain uh how bullish are the
community behind this chain like there's
nobody really asking for it like think
like Finance smart chain for example
massive chain like economically huge in
terms of like you know dollars and cents
but how many people from buying smart
chain are actually asking for
integration well not that much not that
I've seen but any of the other ones like
you know Dash or Radix who are smaller
chains not as economically powered
houses like finding smart chain might be
but the community behind it is like
ravenous like they're dying for it in a
sense right like they love the idea and
so which one would actually provide the
swaps and the volume and the liquidity
to the network that's what we look for
as a community and that's a very like
you know soft target to hit like
different people of different viewpoints
of like what would be more beneficial
for the network would it be adding
Monero versus adding by a smart team
versus adding Dash versus adding Neo or
like whatever it might be and people
will voice their different perspectives
and debate and argue as a community but
what the right thing is to do but in the
end you got to get two-thirds majority
of the validators to agree that this is
a good thing to do whatever that is yeah
really cool I haven't really groked what
the Thor token represents so could you
just share a little bit of information
about what the Thor token is and its
relationship with Thor chain and roon
yes so the Thor token is not actually
part of the Thor chain project okay the
Thor token is part of Thor swap which is
a UI built on top of 13. in the proof
that way in full transparency I was an
angel investor into door swap myself
just so people know of that so how it
works is is that they have a vault on
ethereum uh I think it's an ERC 2646 or
something like this if I get my remote
correctly I name it the number wrong but
and basically when you use their UI they
get an affiliate fee so they charge
users you know X dollars and cents when
they do a trade some some number of bips
and then a certain percentage of that
goes to the team to to the devs and what
not to build store Swap and build the UI
and the apis and all these kind of
things sdks that they're doing which
they're doing great work on and part of
it goes to buy up the Thor token and
lock it into that vault which goes to
the people who lock up their tokens so
it's basically a way for you to if
you're bullish on Thor Swap and the
growth of that UI you can profit on that
by buying a Thor token locking it up in
their in their vaults and then earning
more tokens from all the swaps And
Trades happening through their uis
actually pretty brilliant is that also
like a governance token as well like I
noticed that there's a proposal to burn
Thor so will people be able to vote on
that using their Thor tokens or what
other kind of utility does it offer uh I
don't know if it's actually used for
governance or not to be honest with you
I can't really have to remember I've
taught my head there might be a
governance on it but I'm not sure how
that that process is to be honest with
you it's great to have somebody from the
Thor swap team that understand them more
deeply than I to be able to comment on
those things so this is also really cool
cool because like the Thor chain
ecosystem is expanding Beyond just like
initially what roon was supposed to be
and like what Thor chain was supposed to
represent which is of course trustless
permissionless L1 to L1 token swaps one
of the things that got me really excited
back in the day when I first started
lping was this protection against
impermanent loss so I noticed that this
is on The Chopping Block potentially how
did door chain or how does it still at
the time of recording provide protection
against a permanent loss and why is the
team thinking about axing this yeah good
question so impermanent loss happens
whenever you have two assets in a pool
and as trading happens and you you gain
more asset and you lose another asset
because this price has changed you
experience what people refer to as
impermanent loss right and for us when
we look at the data for Thor chain
because we have a new C model called the
base fee model it's a lot more
profitable for LPS than like a simple
xyk of 30 bips the length is and so
after observing I think it was like six
months or a year of like economic data
we realized that after a hundred days
very very few people actually experience
in permanent loss because the fees
they're gaining during the during those
hundred days is worth more than the IL
that they experience and so then being
in the in the green right and matter of
speaking and so we started permanent
loss protection as a way of uh relieving
concerns that people might have about
becoming an LP right I don't want to
experience permanent loss blah blah and
so I'm not going to do it and so give
them a reason like well no if you would
effectively had just held your tokens
the the asset in the room that you were
going to put into the network and just
held it and you become at a loss after
100 days of LP then the network will
actually take its Reserve which is about
170 million or 160 million would have
how the number is and pay out what the
difference is just to cover your basis
just so you you never have to worry
about that particular element to it and
in reality like the amount of room the
network actually has a payout is
actually very very small a very small
amount and so then I'm not not even
being that big of a deal right from from
our perspective so the reason why we're
thinking about axing it though is
because we've recently launched a new
feature called Sabers which gives you
single asset exposure to to in single
asset yield so you can put in Bitcoin
and earn more Bitcoin without selling
half your Bitcoin into roon or being
price exposed to the roon asset and so
just Bitcoin on bitcoin yield straight
up like the same thing as you would have
gotten in Block fi interest accounts but
instead of using gpdc as like the the
revenue source for that yield that you
get on your Bitcoin in your Bitcoin you
use the the pool Revenue the swaps the
trades the block rewards blah blah that
produce yield for those uh LPS and you
basically take on half the yield instead
of eating 100 yield you could have to
deal because you're sticking on half the
risk and so with that as an option now
if you're worried about IL well then
just throw Bitcoin in the network and
and get that as much as you want and if
you if you don't care about IL then just
be a dual-sided LP and then take on the
risks of LP of went off that come with
that and so I just don't feel like it's
really needed anymore to be honest with
you yeah and when I'm contributing to an
LP like let's say I'm in the the Bitcoin
LP what am I receiving rewards in am I
receiving rewards in roon or am I
receiving rewards in roon and Bitcoin
you always receive rewards in whatever
asset you give the network so if you
give the network Bitcoin you'll get
Bitcoin back if you give a network Rune
you get room back if you give them both
they'll get both back so it's always
receiving rewards and whatever ask you
you provide to the network and you kind
of alluded to this already but I just
want to double down and and make sure
that I'm clear on this what is the
difference between providing a
single-sided stake to like a Bitcoin LP
versus contributing my Bitcoin to the
Savers module so when you provide
single-sided as an LP position
you are contributing Bitcoin but you're
not contributing the roon so effectively
actually happens in the background is
that half of that Bitcoin basically gets
sold into roon and so you are price
exposed to both the Bitcoin and their
own even though you only actually gave
the network Bitcoin or gave the network
room depending on what side of the one
side that you went in on so you take the
price exposure of both assets if you are
an LP no matter how you provide the
liquidity you always take on the price
exposure or both but as a saver you only
take on the price exposure of the asset
that you provide which could be Bitcoin
or ether or Doge or Bitcoin cash avax
atom whatever it might be you have a
very very low risk situation because
your only thing you're exposed to is the
price risk of Bitcoin itself the asset
that you give up and the protocol risk
of just any the programs that comes with
any D5 project that you might interact
with and how am I actually deriving
yield on the saver am I earning Network
fees am I earning Rewards from the lp
like what is the saver getting how are
they getting their interest good
question so as an LP you visit two
sources of revenue one is this the swaps
that are happening the network that are
producing are being charged fees and
left left in the pool for your benefit
as well as block rewards so everywhere
every block that the room is emitted
into the pools to help bolster uh yield
in the earlier days of the network and
so as a saver you are entitled to that
same reward but instead of getting 100
of your reward you get 50 of that reward
and the other 50 just goes to the
regular LPS or who are taking on more of
a risk than you are could you help me
understand why there are slippage fees
when I'm entering or exiting a Savers
position yes good question so in order
to enter and exit a sales
um position you have to acquire a
synthetic asset synthetic Bitcoin for
example now you don't actually have to
have it like you don't actually need a
Thor wallet or Thor chain wallet to do
any of this if you can just literally do
it from any Bitcoin wallet in the world
world and just send some Bitcoin in take
your position and then withdraw your
Bitcoin back out later all with your PC
one address you don't actually have to
have some room have some author wallet
it's not required the network kind of
just holds it on your behalf so but you
have to go from you put in that Bitcoin
it gets basically swapped to roon and
then from that Rune we admit the
synthetic Bitcoin that is that
represents the the ownership of that
pool and partial ownership of that pool
and then the network just holds that
synthetic Bitcoin into a separate Vault
somewhere on the network and then uh we
generate yield into that rule Vault and
what you are owning a percentage of that
volt so as we just mint more synthetics
into that volt your purchasing power
eventually increases and then whenever
you want to withdraw you can just send
us like a sense in dust Bitcoin dust at
the network something oh just give me
withdrawal like I mean I'll give you all
my Bitcoin back just through a dust
transaction and then it just all right
cool I'm gonna send you back all your
Bitcoin plus all your interests you
received and and if you go from the
synthetic acid back to the layer 1 asset
which there are swap fees that are that
are incurred in that process very cool
is that vaults managed by like a
multi-sig or an MPC or or how is that
secured that's just done by the protocol
itself there's no MPC there's no TSS
nothing like that happening it's just
like a it's basically like a wallet that
doesn't have a private keys right it's a
wall That's generated by the network
itself there's no private key the only
thing that can actually tell things to
move in and out of it is the literally
the network itself the protocol itself
and I noticed that uh the Caps were just
raised yep I remember the raise the cap
meme yeah during the initial days of of
the lping uh so how do you guys
determine a what the cap is and B when
to raise it so whenever we launched
especially major features we'd like to
be more cautious in the way we approach
it we don't like to just like rip the
Bandit off and then like yo our way into
some major new feature that could be
buggy or gruesome's you know risks to it
so we like to start small and start
cautiously and so when we launched this
new Savers product this we put a limit
on the synthetic Assets in the pool to
be 50 of the the depth of the pool
itself so we launched this feature
people started to dump Bitcoin and
ethereum especially into the network to
get their yield everything's going
smoothly we haven't seen any significant
maybe some minor bugs here and there but
nothing to be really concerned about the
demand is there obviously we haven't
seen any reasons to slow down there's
nothing there haven't been any red flags
or anything like this and so we just
kind of prompt the community and say do
you want to raise the Caps from 15 of
the pool death or to 30 or do you want
to go to 50 or what is the community
voted they wanted to go to 30 and so
then we have plans to go to 50 or maybe
even more than 50 50 through other
mechanisms such as another longer
conversation but of course we always
talk about Safety and Security and all
these kind of things and in the end it
is the community that decides of how far
down this road we want to go yeah and
shout out to the team that worked on
that I yesterday I enter entered
multiple positions with different L1
assets and it was super simple Ledger
integration very secure feeling
one-click functions it's awesome so
congrats I mean thank you Ben that this
feature is so remarkable like this
doesn't exist in D5 it only exists in C5
it actually doesn't exist in C5 either
because they're all they're all dead
they all died but uh now it exists
solely in the D5 space which is kind of
remarkable and it's so easy to interact
with it's like it's so clean so simple I
even know of a very well-known famous
person who's building a like a wrapper
around the Thor chain Savers just for
bitcoiners and so it's like it'd be like
I'm making this up here like
bitcoinsavers.com or some domain or
whatever it is and just you can you can
connect any wallet you want they can be
Ledger it could be a treasure it could
be a trust wallet it could be like I
don't know enter wallet name here is
this matter and just gives you like a QR
code to scan and like send the tokens in
the Bitcoin in and then like you're good
you you're good that's all you got to do
so clean so simple to send a transaction
that's only you only got to do it and
then everything else is just taken care
of can you help me steel man this
because it feels and sounds like it's
too good to be true
I'll tell you this with everything that
we've done as a project I've heard that
statement
stays when we're like Hey we're gonna do
a cross chain swaps and trustless way uh
that's completely decentralized like
people would throw rocks at us you know
even like Hayden from uniswap was just
like throwing shade you know so either
it's a scammer that is don't don't know
that it's broken or something like this
I think that's what he said and they're
like and I get it like we are pushing
the envelope into significant ways as a
community as a project but if the
concern is like that it's just too good
to be true if that's like your biggest
concern that people have that I'm fine
with because that'll just that lets
upside and go away nobody believes that
cross chain swaps anymore are too good
to be true they were like back in 2017
when we were like talking about but
today like nobody really questions
anymore because it's been working for
years like well straight up been
functioning and working for years so the
Savers concept like you're welcome to go
into the depths of understanding the
math and how it actually is structured
and works and you'll find that it
actually is like backed by actual real
yield it's not some sort of fake yield
that's been being manifested from
nowhere it's actually generating yield
from like act by by providing an actual
value that other people are willing to
pay for right but that's the crazy thing
here like we sometimes forget about that
in crypto land but like the more you
learn about it and how it works the more
you realize that it actually does work
in general and if you don't do that work
well then just wait six months and
you'll find that Savers are still around
and still doing what it does yeah and
again the uh the interest rates are
super realistic you're not looking at
like four figure returns or anything
like that yeah the the interest rates I
I assume the interest rates will
naturally come down because the product
Market fit of what this thing does is
ridiculously good like block Phi has
more Bitcoin just because they were
offering interest rates on bitcoin of
like point zero two percent apy and they
had much more Bitcoin than like liquid
Network and light Network combined
multiplied by five you know what I mean
like they were hugely successful just on
that one idea of giving somebody
on a minuscule amount of Bitcoin and
here we are offering four percent at the
current moment but as more people pile
into the system the yield will naturally
come down we can't be like Terror UST
any like promise 20 fixed rate blah blah
blah that's nonsensical we have to be
realistic we have to respond to the
market demands right so if the demand
for this feature is massive and then
yield will naturally come down with it
and so they'll naturally find like a
good balancing point you know of a
supply and demand that's got that point
of balance between those two points and
so we'll just naturally find it over
time totally and is Savers uh precursor
to a lending protocol or is that on the
road map yes uh lending is on the
roadmap again this is one of those
things it's like it sounds like it's too
good to be true but trust me I I think
I'm very bullish on it and you're
welcome to look into the math and
understand how it works I made a YouTube
video we can link in the show notes here
if you want to uh like an hour long just
explaining in depth and in detail like
what this is and how it works but
problem but what makes it so remarkable
not just the fact that it's cross chain
right it's actually offering Bitcoin
collateral for you know an actual uh
Bitcoin loan right in a decentralized
way not just Bitcoin but ethereum and
Doge and Bitcoin cash and avacs and BNB
and whatever other chains that get added
Downstream like that by itself would
have been a gargantuan thing just
single-handedly on that particular
little little tidbit right there what we
actually did we actually designed an
entire new lending protocol that is
structurally very different than how we
think about Mega da or Ave our compound
one of these guys and because of this
new structure to how it works we can
offer a zero percent interest on your
loan no liquidations at all you never
get liquidated even when the collateral
drops below the value of the of the debt
now that sounds like we've become
insolved there's a massive problem
actually it's beneficial for the network
when that does happen so we actually
really like it when it happens right and
it has no expiration to these things so
you can you take it along and pay it
back in 30 years I don't care and so you
can actually use this loan to like
really improve your actual physical life
like you can actually go take it alone
have zero percent interest no
liquidations and no expiration so you
can go ahead and buy that car with your
Bitcoin while still maintaining the
price exposure to the Bitcoin that you
have or buy that house or do that thing
or take that vacation or I are taking
your girlfriend out for a nice dinner or
something I don't know whatever you just
want to do that actually improves your
life and enjoys life and so like that is
going to be one of the most gargantuan
things that we've done as a community is
this whole lending design because it's
going to make everything else look like
Antiquated overnight yeah I'm halfway
through that video and it's really cool
just to see the the passion you have for
building a product that can help Empower
people financially that's the point of
D5 right at the point of defy isn't to
like de-gen people and make the
millionaires which obviously that does
happen right as people get people get
excited about that I get that you know
Everybody Wants To Be A Millionaire
right but like the point of Defy is to
create Financial Primitives or
instruments that allow people to empower
them to accomplish what they want to
accomplish in their lives to open
businesses to be able to escape Tyrant
fire Fiat systems or manipulated markets
like Wall Street for example to escape
that system and be engaged into a new
Financial system that treats everybody
with pure equality and do it all
transparently clearly that's what we're
here for that's what we should be
focused on as a community but we
oftentimes get distracted by you know 20
fixed rate yields and money go up
numbers and this kind of stuff which I
get like it's addicted tips right it
makes sense that it would be but like
let's not lose focus of the what the
power of what it is that we're doing and
how we're literally rebuilding the
entire Financial system in this
significant way to the betterment of
humanity 100 kind of wrapping up I had a
chat with the shapeshift boys and I was
wondering if there was anything
interesting that I could pull your ear
on and John said that I should bring up
archeo
can you share a little bit about what
that is and why you're so psyched on it
yes so archaeo is another project that
that I me and John and and Michael
Kirkland are involved with I guess you
could call us co-founders maybe the
correct term possibly but archaeo the
idea of Pinocchio is to create a free
market solution to blockchain data
because right now when you use uh let's
say metamask for example it uses
inferior as its data source to get like
how much ether you have in your wallet
or your transaction history or below
like whatever it might be or to query
smart contracts for information or
whatever it might be and if you're a is
a centralized entity that can choose to
disable certain contracts it doesn't
like like tornado cash for example they
can collect your information they can
associate your physical location like
your IP address with your wallet address
that sounds problematic to me right like
that becomes a significant issue right
and so I think what archaea was trying
to accomplish what I'm trying to do with
John and and Michael of those guys is to
create a new system where we can fully
decentralize the access to that data
that blockchains are building without
asking permission without going through
all these procedures though being
tracked without like any of this
information this is actually a critical
component that we're missing within like
in basic infrastructure of the space
like I was saying in the very beginning
thinking about like how I'm personally
offended that we have to use centralized
entities to do things we should be able
to do in a centralized way but like
cross chain swaps for example this is
conceptually the same thing we have to
ask and fear our information about
ethereum which is open source and freely
available data and some reason I'm
asking some centralized entity who wants
to track me for this data we shouldn't
have to put up with that so what I want
to do with John and those guys and the
shape guys is to like build a new free
market solution for anybody to provide
that data and make money to himself
super cool cognizant of your time I
guess to wrap up you're obviously select
on RKO but what's something on Thor
Chain's roadmap you're really excited
about and what are the best ways that
people can keep in contact with you and
with the project I mean there's always a
lot going on lending is obviously a big
thing I'm super excited we talked about
that already we got older books that are
also part of the road map which I'm
pretty excited about I even was talking
recently with some people about how we
can change Savers to do fixed right
income in a way that's actually
sustainable that actually really
functionally literally works and it
provides no additional risk to the
protocol itself that's probably going to
happen at some point I'm assuming but
like there's so many things happening in
this feeling in effect like Fortune is
replacing base replacing the things that
we thought about what blockfi does
lending and like interest accounts blah
blah all that stuff we as a as a
protocol and fully decentralized fully
open source fully transparent system
will do all those things for the entire
industry across any chain that is of a
significant value there's so much there
to be bullish about not all you know
where to start yeah so I've been a huge
door chain fan for years now I've been
following you for years so is an
absolute honor to be able to share the
mic with you for an hour and to get to
know you get to meet you I was a little
nervous about this podcast because I'm
just so psyched on the work you do and
what door chain is and the conversation
definitely delivered so I want to thank
you Chad for coming to join the Pod uh
sharing your passion sharing what's
going on with Thor chain it was really
cool to be able to chat with you uh
thanks for having me appreciate it great
conversation sweet cheers
foreign
well what did you think of that
conversation it was really cool to learn
about the process of adding new networks
to Thor chain and not that it's
necessarily the total value that's
stored on the Chain but the desire of
that blockchain networks Community to be
part of Thor chain it was also really
cool to learn about how the team built
decentralized protocols to replicate
What's Done in the traditional and
centralized Finance space
except for custody being handled by the
Thor chain Network protocol But
ultimately it was really refreshing to
hear the passion that Chad has for
building these decentralized Financial
systems to empower people rather than
create ridiculous short-term yields and
replace banks in the services that they
offer across multiple blockchains on
that note I want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast if you liked what
you heard and want to support the show
please keep Neo news today in mind when
voting for your Neo Council
representative as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time
foreign